A purely AR model forecasts our variable
using a combination of past values of
the variable.
AR models act like linear
regression models.
And the more AR terms, the more
previous periods used in the forecast.
So once you've stationarized
a time series,
the next step is to determine how many
AR terms are needed to account for
any autocorrelation left in the series.
As we just saw, the ACF and
PACF plots are helpful in determining
the number of AR terms to include.
However, this alone cannot
lead you to the best model.
These plots help you to choose a few
models to test against each other.
While choosing a model manually
can be a very iterative process,
modern tools like Alteryx can automate
most of this process for you.
As a review from our ACF and
PACF lessons,
let's take a look at what
suggests AR terms in a model.
The ACF plot will show
autocorrelation decaying towards 0,
while the PACF plot will
cut off quickly towards 0.
If the ACF of a stationarized
series shows positive at Lag-1,
AR terms are best.